---

copyright:
  years: 2023
lastupdated: "2023-10-17"

keywords: logging

subcollection: openpages

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Logging for {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}}
{: #service-logs}

Use the {{site.data.keyword.la_full}} service to view {{site.data.keyword.openpages_full}} logs for your instance.
{: shortdesc}

With {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}}, administrators, DevOps teams, and developers can review log data, define alerts, and design custom views to monitor application and system logs. For more information, see the [{{site.data.keyword.la_short}} docs](/docs/log-analysis?topic=log-analysis-getting-started).

## Before you begin
{: #before-logs}

If you're working with {{site.data.keyword.la_short}} for the first time, be sure that you create an instance in the same location as your {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}} instance. For more information, see [Configuring platform logs through the Observability dashboard](/docs/log-analysis?topic=log-analysis-config_svc_logs#config_svc_logs_ui).

## Viewing logs
{: #view-logs-ui}

Logs that are generated by a {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}} service instance are forwarded automatically to the {{site.data.keyword.la_short}} instance that is available in the same location.

Only logs with the level ERROR are forwarded.
{: note}

To view {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}} logs, complete the following steps:

1. Log in to the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console.
2. Go to **IBM Cloud > Observability** to access your [Observability dashboard](https://{DomainName}/observe){: external}.
3. From the navigation menu, click **Logging**.
4. Select a {{site.data.keyword.la_short}} instance, and click **Open Dashboard**.

    Don't have a {{site.data.keyword.la_short}} instance? [Create an instance](/docs/log-analysis?topic=log-analysis-provision) in the same location as your {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}} instance. Then, click **Configure platform logs** to receive logs from supported services in your account.
5. In the logging UI, filter by `openpages` to view logs that are generated by {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}}.

    For more information about searching and filtering logs, check out the [{{site.data.keyword.la_short}} documentation](/docs/log-analysis?topic=log-analysis-monitor_logs).

## Analyzing logs
{: #analyze-logs-ui}

You can create views and alerts from all of your {{site.data.keyword.openpages_short}} instances, or from a specific instance.

### Query for finding all errors from a specific instance
{: #query-instance-logs}

To find all errors from a specific instance, run a query with `host:op-{INSTANCE_GUID}` filter. For example:
```
host:op-d1319025-5308-4168-b2d8-75bdc9e69af3
```

To learn more about creating [views](/docs/log-analysis?topic=log-analysis-view_logs) and [alerts](/docs/log-analysis?topic=log-analysis-create_alert_ui), see the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} documentation.
{: note}
